.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, before:

## Description

Please include a summary of the change and which issue is fixed. Please also include relevant motivation and context.

Fixes # (issue)

## Type of change

Please delete options that are not relevant.

- [ ] Bug fix (non-breaking change which fixes an issue)
- [ ] New feature (non-breaking change which adds functionality)
- [ ] Breaking change (fix or feature that would cause existing functionality to not work as expected)
- [ ] Documentation update

## How Has This Been Tested?

Please describe the tests that you ran to verify your changes. Provide instructions so we can reproduce.

## Checklist:

- [ ] My code follows the style guidelines of this project
- [ ] I have performed a self-review of my own code
- [ ] I have commented my code, particularly in hard-to-understand areas
- [ ] I have made corresponding changes to the documentation
- [ ] My changes generate no new warnings
- [ ] I have tested my changes and they work as expected
- [ ] Any dependent changes have been merged and published in downstream modules

Commit message:

Add comprehensive documentation - Add Code of Conduct - Add Contributing guide - Add Configuration docs - Add Export Features guide - Add Installation guide - Add Trakt.tv API integration guide - Add Changelog - Update issue and PR templates

.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, after:

## Pull Request Description

<!-- Describe what changes this PR introduces and why -->

## Related Issues

<!-- Link to related issues using the syntax: "Fixes #123" or "Relates to #456" -->

## Type of Change

- [ ] Bug fix (non-breaking change which fixes an issue)
- [ ] New feature (non-breaking change which adds functionality)
- [ ] Breaking change (fix or feature that would cause existing functionality to not work as expected)
- [ ] This change requires a documentation update
- [ ] Refactoring (no functional changes)
- [ ] CI/CD or build process changes

## Checklist

- [ ] I have read the [CONTRIBUTING](../blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) document
- [ ] My code follows the code style of this project
- [ ] I have added tests that prove my fix is effective or that my feature works
- [ ] New and existing unit tests pass locally with my changes
- [ ] I have updated the documentation accordingly
- [ ] My changes generate no new warnings
- [ ] Any dependent changes have been merged and published in downstream modules

## Screenshots (if applicable)

<!-- Add screenshots here if UI changes are made -->

## Testing Steps

<!-- Provide instructions so we can reproduce your testing -->

## Additional Information

<!-- Any additional information about the PR -->
